[AG-2123] Added instructions to use connection YAML file for local airflow development (#168)
Sage-Bionetworks-Workflows/orca-recipes: README.md

Congrats! You have completed set up of the dev environment.

> ### Testing DAGs Locally

Reviewer: It feels like this may be a better fit in the CONTRIBUTING.md? There is a testing section: https://github.com/Sage-Bionetworks-Workflows/orca-recipes/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#testing

There are two distinct ways to test a DAG's task logic without deploying to Airflow:

- **Unit tests** — mock external dependencies (hooks like `NextflowTowerHook`/`SynapseHook`, `WebClient`, `Variable`, etc.) and call each task's `python_callable` directly. These are fast, require no credentials or network access, and run automatically in CI on every push. They validate your Python logic (parameter wiring, branching, string formatting), not whether the real external services behave as you assume. See `tests/` for examples.

> - **Local integration runs** via `dag.test()` — hit real external services with real credentials pulled from AWS Secrets Manager. These validate the real integration (e.g., actually launching a Nextflow Tower workflow or posting to Slack), but are slower, require AWS SSO access, and can have real side effects. Use this as a manual sanity check before/after changing integration behavior, not as an automated substitute for unit tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Local integration runs** via `dag.test()` — hit real external services using real credentials. Credentials can come from AWS Secrets Manager (matching production) or from a local `connections.yaml/AIRFLOW_VAR_*` configuration via `LocalFilesystemBackend`. These validate the real integration (e.g., actually launching a Nextflow Tower workflow or posting to Slack), but are slower, require AWS SSO access, and can have real side effects. Use this as a manual sanity check before/after changing integration behavior, not as an automated substitute for unit tests.
```

#### Skip AWS Secrets Manager for Local Development

If you'd rather not authenticate to AWS just to test a DAG (e.g., to talk to the real Nextflow Tower), use Airflow's `LocalFilesystemBackend` instead, backed by a local `connections.yaml` file:

```console
export AIRFLOW__SECRETS__BACKEND=airflow.secrets.local_filesystem.LocalFilesystemBackend
export AIRFLOW__SECRETS__BACKEND_KWARGS='{"connections_file_path": "connections.yaml"}'
```

Create `connections.yaml` from the template:

```console
cp connections.yaml.example connections.yaml
```

Fill in the real credentials for whichever connections your DAG needs. For example, to launch workflows on the real Nextflow Tower:

```yaml
AGORA_PROJECT_TOWER_CONN:

>   conn_type: tower

Reviewer: Would these keys be the same for every nextflow tower launch?

Author: I think so, but you have to use your own `tower_conn_id`

  host: tower.sagebionetworks.org
  schema: api
  password: "<your-tower-personal-access-token>"
  extra:
    workspace: sage-bionetworks/<your-workspace>
```

`host`/`schema` become the Tower API endpoint (`https://<host>/<schema>`), `password` is your Tower personal access token, and `extra.workspace` is the fully-qualified `<org>/<workspace>` name.

> `LocalFilesystemBackend`'s `connections_file_path` config above only covers Connections, not Airflow **Variables**. Some DAGs also call `Variable.get("SOME_NAME")` — for example, `SLACK_DPE_TEAM_BOT_TOKEN`, a Slack bot token normally pulled from AWS Secrets Manager. Once you switch away from `SecretsManagerBackend`, there's no source for Variables at all — a plain env var like `SLACK_DPE_TEAM_BOT_TOKEN` in your shell or `.env` is **not** visible to `Variable.get()`.

Author: this is to explain why you can't just list the environment variables in `.env`

> `LocalFilesystemBackend`'s `connections_file_path` config above only covers Connections, not Airflow **Variables**. Some DAGs also call `Variable.get("SOME_NAME")` — for example, `SLACK_DPE_TEAM_BOT_TOKEN`, a Slack bot token normally pulled from AWS Secrets Manager. Once you switch away from `SecretsManagerBackend`, there's no source for Variables at all — a plain env var like `SLACK_DPE_TEAM_BOT_TOKEN` in your shell or `.env` is **not** visible to `Variable.get()`.

Reviewer: Would try to split up these two sections - using connections.yaml and exporting airflow vars as separate so that it doesn't appear the export airflow vars is required for the above section? Since there are DAGs that just need the exporting airflow vars (instead of using aws secrets manager)?

Author: Yes, I think this idea.
